Hey everyone, my name is Steve and it is an honor to be here with you for this week's Gospel of Mark Takeaway.
This week we're going to be in Mark chapter 10 verses 32 through 45 and we're going to be looking at a passage of scripture that can apply to us all. You know this passage
This past weekend, we talked about a topic that we've all thought about before. It's the idea of how should we use our power and our position. And as we look at
Look at the disciples and some of the interactions and conversation that they had with Jesus. It reminds us of ourselves. You know, the disciples were always asking questions that
And they were always giving responses that we would have asked and as Jesus deals with them, I think a lot of times we see ourselves in what the disciples are saying.
the disciples would say.
Even as Jesus gave the disciples information, they were a little nervous because they didn't understand all of it. And we are that way sometimes. And so as we look at this passage, and I'm just going to
And I'm just going to read the last couple of verses in the section that kind of sum up what the whole section is about. Just follow along with me. So we're in Mark chapter 10, and I'm going to read.
to read from verses 42 through 45 and it says this.
But Jesus called them to himself and said to them,
You know that those who are considered rulers over the Gentiles lord it over them.
And their great ones exercise authority over them.
Yet it shall not be so among you.
But whoever desires to become great among you shall be your servant, and whosoever of you desires to be first shall be slave of all.
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many.
You know, if you read this scripture, Jesus is always resetting the standard for us a lot of times, isn't he? Or another way to put it would be right sizing things. So
So there was always the religious teachers of the day.
And what they would say, and Jesus always encountered them and addressed what was happening. And even for us today, there's what the culture says a lot of times. And Jesus will address them.
We'll address that. And a lot of times as he does it, he'll say, you know, not what the religious teachers say or not what the culture of your day says, but what does God have to say about the subject? What does the
What does the Father have to say? And Jesus does that in this case. And so, as even James and John, we know them right, the sons of thunder, right?
come to Jesus and ask what we would think of as almost an outlandish question when it comes to position of power and authority. They asked this question. He said,
And he said, teacher,
We want you to do for us whatever we ask. Can you imagine asking Jesus that question? But what I love is his answer back to them. It's almost just a surprise.
Surprising.
Jesus says, "What do you want me to do for you?" And they start to detail what they want and we find out very quickly that what they were after is a secret.
a seat of position and power, and Jesus starts to describe for them, well, if you want that seat in that position, let me tell you what this is about, and let me tell you the cup that comes
That comes with it and although they thought they were ready.
Jesus starts to describe to them and show them that they're actually not. And as this passage unfolds, it points us to something. And it's this idea that power, influence, and authority
Authority is not meant to benefit the one who holds it.
But it's rather meant to be given away.
to help others. Which brings us to something that we can think of for ourselves is do we do that with the positions that we have? Do we do that with the power that we have? See,
See, James and John didn't quite understand that. They didn't quite understand what came with what they were asking for. You know, and even today, our culture says, hey, if you have a position of
You're not going to be able to do that. You're not going to be able to do that. You're not going to be able to do that. You're not going to be able to do that. You're not going to be able to do that. You're not going to
That seat that they thought of as a position of power and authority, Jesus says, hey, actually, that's a seat of service and a seat of sacrifice. It reminds me of Philippians 4.
2 Philippians 3.10 says,
It says this, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being made like him even unto death. Now, if you think about it,
You think about that verse and you ask people, hey, do you want to know God in the way that we get the power of his resurrection? Well, all of us would say like, hey, yes, I want that resurrection power.
But then when we think about do we want to be counted in with Jesus with the fellowship of his sufferings a lot of those hands start to go down See I don't know about the fellowship of his sufferings in Jesus's saying
And I think that's a great question. And I think that's a great question. And I think that's a great question. And I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question
similar to what Jesus had at the end of their life, which was serving and suffering, but they would join Jesus in that glory. And a lot of times we want the power and we want
Or we want everything that comes with it without what you have to do to get there. And so I think that's why Jesus said that just reading verse 42 again. You know, whosoever desires
Desires to be great among you shall be your servant
And he would even show this later on as he washed the disciples' feet. And it reminds me of another set of verses in Philippians chapter 2.
If you look in Philippians chapter 2, it says this.
Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit.
But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself.
Let each of you look not only for his own interests, but for the interests of others. Let this mind being you, which was also in Christ Jesus.
And he continues in those verses to go on to say how Jesus, even though he could have taken a position of power and authority, came in a way that he was going to be humble and came in a way that
came in a way that he was going to not only die for us, but do it in a way that just showed us that he was a servant. And so let me ask you as you go throughout your week today,
What is the way that you use your power?
What is the way that you use your leadership, your position on what God's giving you? Do you use it for yourself or do you use it in a way that is meant to help others or could could
could contribute to others. You know, Jesus as he was on earth had a lot of power and authority, but if you think about the way he used it, it was very, very attractive. You know, people weren't
People weren't walking around scared of Jesus. He wasn't an absolute ruler who ruled with an iron fist, but he did have power and authority, but the way he used it was attractive and
And how can we as Christians who are supposed to be salt and light to a world, use that power and authority that comes from the Lord, but in a way that's attractive and in a way that moves
that brings others to Christ. And so as you're watching this this week, I hope you can kind of take from that and just really grapple with how to use your power
power and authority in a way that brings others to Christ. And so we all need help from the Holy Spirit to be able to do that.
And I would like to close us in prayer with this week's takeaway just so we can pray and ask the Lord for that power and authority, but not for that power and authority to use it in a way that we're going to benefit
to benefit ourselves that we can use our positions to benefit others. So let's pray.
Lord, we're just thankful for the positions that you've placed us in. And God, we know those positions don't come from anything that we've done. We know our power that we get comes from you.
you. And Lord, I pray that we would be great stewards of that position or that power that we have and that we would look around at others to see who we could benefit from the positions.
that you've placed us in. So God, help us to do that as best we can and help all those watching as they pray to be able to do that in the context that you've placed them in.
In your name, amen.
Thanks for watching.